3D room escape has a long history and many excellent works. But just as many themes have been tried, people have grown tired of them. Our design needs to consider both the most popular and the worst-performing elements, filtering to get the good ones and avoiding potential pitfalls. We start with storylines.

According to discussions from various websites, players are getting tired of common themes such as robberies, prison breaks, and zombies. They are considered classic but lack appeal. Additionally, players generally do not appreciate storylines based on real historical events. This can be perceived by some as downplaying the actual events and showing disrespect for history and potential victims. It is also best to avoid storylines that involve sensitive topics such as politics, race, and gender. For example, content related to transgender groups or Black Lives Matter may always cause controversy.

In contrast, a good storyline often has outstanding parts in common content rather than being completely unconventional. For example, if we choose to escape from captivity, being imprisoned by mermaids in an underwater space station is obviously more interesting than being imprisoned by thugs in an apartment. And it is more likely to trigger suffocation warnings and other elements that increase the horror atmosphere. Another example is that many 3D room escape games choose historical events as their prototypes or backgrounds, but they often just place players in that era. If the storyline can be set up to involve players traveling back and forth between two time periods, using clues obtained in the modern era to change the course of history, it is easier to create suspense and arouse interest.

A good storyline not only means an interesting plot, but also often influences the escape room environment we can choose, the props, and the specific characters and rules. This is a very important step. We will have further brainstorming and exchange ideas in the next progress update.

Resources:
https://www.reddit.com/r/escaperooms/comments/18qu1d3/whats_the_worst_escape_room_concept_youve_seen/
https://www.escaperoomera.com/escapade-blog-posts/whats-the-weirdest-or-most-unusual-theme-ever-used-for-an-escape-room
